Now we get to the fun part.
And we get to fetch some of our
notes into our app and get it going.
So the first thing we wanna do is,
let's just seed our database.
Because for
the sake of brevity, we're actually only
gonna focus on pulling in the content.
We're not gonna create a UI right
now to create some notes and
update some notes and things like that.
We're just gonna pull the notes down.
So let's just seed our
database with some notes.
So you can head over to
that data data file.
And I'm gonna go there, and
I'm just going to seed some
notes like that little hack that i always
do to like fill an array with some stuff.
So if you never use it before, new array,
you put a number that's going to create
an amount of entries in an array.
You do a dot fill whatever
you put in fill is gonna,
because right now if you just do
new array, it'll be 15 on defines.
They'll say undefined 15 times do a dot
fill, that's gonna change them all to one.
So now I have an array of one 15 times and
then i'm going to map over that
to change them all to an object.
Basically, so it's just like a quick
way to fill an array with some stuff,
something I've always said.
I think there's a quicker way to do it.
But this is how i always just do it.
Cool.
So yeah, we got the database
seeded with some notes here.
And then now, what we're gonna
do is we're going to create.
We're gonna figure out what we
need to do to get this data.
So let's think about getting
all the notes from the page.
So, how could we get this?
Can we get it client side?
Absolutely.
We can do client side but
that's not specific to next,
we're doing next to s here.
First off client side.
Like that without
entertaining other ideas, so
that means we really get server side
props or we have get static props.
So I decided to get server side
props on getting all the notes.
And that's because I really want you all
to observe how that works at runtime for
server side rendering, so you can
really understand what's happening.
And so
we're just gonna do a getServerSideProps,
you could do getStaticProps here.
But the thing is this was
a real application and
we were actually taking notes and
doing notes like that.
I don't have any notes you're gonna
have and I don't wanna refresh the whole
database at bill time and stick all
the notes on there, I don't wanna do that.
Maybe I do, maybe I don't, but
for this application, I don't.
I don't think the data is fit for
that, so i'm just gonna get it
every time when you request it.
That's what I'm gonna do.
You got to make that decision,
that business decision.
But at the same time next has
some really good techniques
cooked inside of it that really
helped with a lot of stuff.
Like even getServerSideProps and
server side rendered pages are cached.
Even they are pre rendered.
So, it still works pretty well,
even though they don't recommend
doing it that well, and I don't.
I don't recommend using
getServiceSideProps all the time.
But even then they kind of save
you with some of that caching.
So, enough talk, let's get some data.
So, I'm just gonna copy
that fetch right there.
And then,
I'm gonna go into our index right here.
I'm going to export a function or
an async function for
getServerSideProps like that.
And then what I'm going to do
is I'm going to fetch our data.
So fetch in this case can't
take a relative path.
So you might be tempted to like,
well, I'm already on my API,
I should just be able to do that.
You'll get an error saying you can't take
relative paths inside of fetch, right?
Has to be a full path and so then, I don't
know if you've connected the dots yet.
It's like, well, how would we, if we were
to deploy this then like, obviously,
this isn't gonna work.
This is kinda gross.
So how do we get a URL?
I mean,
there's a lot of ways to get the URL.
I mean, you get the headers here,
you could probably inspect it and
get the URL if you want.
Or you can be explicit and
just use environment variables, right?
So we have the next config,
put an environment variable in here for
your URLs for staging production
local host, and use them here.
Pretty simple.
So that's what I recommend, but
we'll just hard code for now.
So we'll get fetch,
if you've ever used fetch before,
you have to call jsn on it, because
this is literally one of our fetch.
Then we'll get the data here.
And now it'll be await,
res.json, like that.
So we get the data and then on the API
i always return a data property,so I'm
just gonna destructure that so I don't
have to say data.data, which is gross.
And then what I'm gonna do is I'm
just gonna log this note right quick.
Like that, and then I was going to return
some props that has notes on it like that.
Because this should be all
the notes because I'm doing
a get request to API/note,
which is all the notes, right?
So let's do that.
And then we can see here we need to wait,
I'm on the wrong page.
Sorry.
Wait, this is the wrong page.
Let me go to note index.
There we go.
Or notes index.
Well, so put that back in there.
So now that we have the notes,
you can see I already have
these marked-out notes
that I have on the client.
So I'm just gonna erase that because
I put those on the server side now.
And then now I can use the props that
I'm passing in, which is gonna be notes.
I can use those right there,
which are the same name, so I can do that.
And this should work exactly the same.
All right, so let's test it,
let's go back.
Let's go here.
Go to notes.
It looks like something messed,
yeah, I don't have any notes.
I gotta restart this.
Let's see, okay.
I'll see okay, looks like I'm still
getting back a janky response here.
Let's see,
did i do my notes data thing wrong.
Notes notes.
Don't look like it, let's see.
See what that looks like.
That looks good to me.
I still gotta check off stuff in there,
okay?
I'm like, wait, that definitely works.
There we go.
Sorry about that.
Okay, boom, there we go.
So let me get some notes
on the page which looks
very similar to what we
already have before, so boom.
Got some notes,
all that data's coming down,
we can see the log here is
logging on the server, right?
So I'm logging those notes.
They log on a server.
Now we can check
the actual client here and
you can notice they
don't log on the client.
As it goes,
that code doesn't run on the client.
It only runs on the server.
And I really wanna emphasize that point.
This good service side props
only runs on the server.
So, if I can get to it again, there we go.
There we go, yeah.
This only runs on the service,
so good to go there.